This is not a TypeScript course.
There is TypeScript courses on
Frontend Masters, and they are quite good.
One from my former co-worker and
friend, Mike.
So if you wanna get really
in depth into TypeScript,
Mike's course is a really good
jumping off point for that.
I just wanted to show you how I would
refactor our current app to use
TypeScript.
And I think this would be like a good
jumping off point of like I understand
this application, I understand react,
I wanna see how the two
work together really quick.
So that's kind of the point here.
So quickly we're gonna do an entire
migration over from our totally
JavaScript application,
to a totally TypeScript application.
It's kind of a good example of you, like
what migrating to TypeScript feels like.
In that it's very painful
at the beginning, and
then it gets better as you go on and
get further towards the end.
And then it's great once you have it,
but migrating is a pain.
So first thing what you do is I want you
to make another copy of this Adopt Me app,
which is here the 12-portals-and-ref.
So I'm gonna go do that really quick.
So I'm gonna put that in TypeScript, And
then I am gonna open
that in my code editor.
Make sure you run npm install on that.
So I'm saying that out loud because
I need to run npm install on it.
To get all of our dependencies.
So if you're not incredibly familiar
with what like TypeScript is,
why you use TypeScript.
You've probably heard about it on
the interwebs or on the Twittersphere.
But let's just walk over like
the value proposition of what
TypeScript is good for.
So if I just open one of
these random files here.
If I have TypeScript here,
and I say something like
const x = 5 and then as try and
say x.toString.
Right now JavaScript's like, all right,
that seems pretty cool to me,
I can do that, right?
Actually that probably would work.
[LAUGH].
Let's do a, Yeah,
two upper case, that's a better one,
two upper case.
Obviously, there's no two
uppercase function on a number.
But JavaScript is more than happy to say
like this looks like plausible JavaScript
to me, great.
Here some not gonna catch this obviously
pretty doesn't catch errors like that.
So you need something that's actually
going to go into type checking, right?
So at this point x is a number,
right, it a 5.
This is a function that's
only available on strings,
therefore this will err at run time.
Typescript actually are gonna say like,
hey, this is a number and
then later you are trying to
call two upper case on a number.
That doesn't make any sense.
I don't think you should do that.
So that's kind of the initial value
proposition of what TypeScript does for
you, but that's kind of like the very
surface level like checks or
types kind of things.
The thing that I actually find more
compelling about TypeScripts is
the fact that it's kind of immediate
documentation on your application that you
don't have to write.
It's just kind of generated
by TypeScript itself.
And then visual studio code
can immediately read from it.
And other editors, but
the TypeScript team and
the visual studio code team are like
the same team at Microsoft.
I know that cuz I was on that team, right?
So that TypeScript is built first for
VS code.
I don't know if that's a common knowledge
kind of thing, but that's actually true.
So I'm trying to think of like where some
of that you could show that would be
really interesting this
particular application.
Maybe here where we use theme
context we use it in details.
So if I look at this theme context thing
here, notice that if I just mouse over it,
it says const theme context
is a React context.
And it's of type string or void or
string and it returns a void function.
We didn't write that type anywhere, right?
That's just TypeScript reading our
application where we created that
here in the theme context and
generating that,
it's like, okay,
I understand what this is.
So you get a lot of TypeScript
benefit in VS code,
even if you're not using TypeScript.
However, we can actually make
this significantly better.
Cool, so I think that's my spiel.
I think it's living documentation of your
application that your editor just kind of
makes for you on the fly.
And we'll see a bunch of
examples of this as we go on.
So the first thing I want you
to do is open your code or
your terminal here and
say npm install -D and
we want typescript@4.5.5.
Okay, so we are gonna use TypeScript for
this part of the course.
In previous versions of this course,
I had taught flow.
Flow is made by Facebook,
and it was made for React.
So actually a lot of the types of
React are built into flow itself.
I'm just gonna throw out
there that TypeScript one.
[LAUGH] It's not really
a decision at this point.
TypeScript is like blue ray and flow is
like HD DVD that's some people still use
it, but it's because they have to.
[LAUGH] And I won't go into like
the merits of either one of them.
All right, so we're gonna say npx tsc,
tsc trypescript compiler -- in it and
this will generate our
initial configuration file.
Okay, you'll see here we
have our tsconfig down here.
This is called Json C.
So Json with comments, so
that's why all these comments are in here.
You can see, there is a lot of things
you can configure with TypeScript.
So we're just gonna
configure a few things.
Okay, first make this one es2021,
this target here and
then I think we have to
do the preserve JSX, yep,
this one right here, line 16,
just uncomment that line.
So the next thing is react does
not ship with types, right?
So some of it will just
implicitly understand
because it'll import some
of those types for you.
But let's be explicit and
actually install the types for react.
But some libraries come with
the types right out of the box, so
you don't have to do anything.
I don't like Apollo I think is
one of them that does, right,
like you don't have to do anything
the types come with the library itself.
Some libraries don't write
the libraries in TypeScript and so
there's another project called
definitely typed, that you can go and
install separately the types for
the project.
So even if open source author doesn't
wanna maintain their own types,
the open source community can go safe.
That's fine, we'll maintain it for you.
Because it's a million times easier if
you have the types for your library.
So again back here in your project,
we're gonna say npm install
-D @types/react@17.0.39.
And then we're gonna do it again for
react router or so not react router but
react dom @types/react-dom@17.0.11.
Okay, I think this is pretty cool,
it's like a kind a a cool way of
managing the types here cuz now If you
look in your dev dependencies here,
you just have these types here.
So you'll generally see that a lot in
TypeScript projects is still have to
install a lot of types for all the various
different libraries that don't support it.
For example, I don't think we need to do
react router dom because I believe that
one's actually just written
in TypeScript already.
So we don't have to do anything,
they don't have to do anything.
The types just come with
the project automatically.
Actually, I'm positive that's true.
Cuz I looked, cuz I wrote this course,
believe it or not, I wrote this course.
Okay, so we're gonna do a migration
which is very possible and
actually TypeScript makes
it not too bad to do.
I think the other thing we want to,
this is already in strict mode, right?
Strict, it is.
Okay, line 77 here I'm
just gonna throw out here.
You almost always want this on.
The only reason that you don't wanna turn
strict mode on is if you're in the middle
of a huge migration, and
you can't quite get there yet.
But strict checking is gonna make
sure that you don't do a bunch
of really silly things.
But it does make it harder to work with,
right, it makes it more strict, so
it's aptly named.